---
title: Twilight
pubDate: '2007-08-06'
description: >-
  We live within the Twilight. We have been here longer than you, but you gave
  us form, shaped us with your fantasies and wishes, with your pleas and desires
  and ...
categories:
  - "Creative Writing"
tags:
  - fiction
slug: twilight
---
We live within the Twilight. We have been here longer than you, but you gave us form, shaped us with your fantasies and wishes, with your pleas and desires and fears. We are as old as the wind and rain, as old as the mountains and trees.

Before you we were formless, we moved over the waters, unable to become substantial. We were drawn to you and made ourselves in your image. Through your eyes we saw ourselves, and we delighted in that image.

Our names have come and gone, like the seasons. We were gods and devas, spirits and faeries, kings and nightmares alike. We nurtured you and answered your prayers, we helped your crops grow and we kept your fires burning during the dark times. We tormented you, we took your energy and drank it down like milk, we carried our own names on the wind and taught you how to see us when you called them out.

We are still listening, we have not left you, we wait for you.

Be quiet now, sit amongst the trees and bushes, listen to your heart and wait. Whispering with the wind we come and talk to you, teaching you, telling you about yourself and the world around you. Now, smell the earth below you, smell the perfume of the honeysuckle on the winds; it kisses you. Let your eyes look into the dimness, between the trees and the horizon, see into the Twilight.
