---
title: Perspective and Context
pubDate: '2007-02-22'
description: >-
  A friend of mine prays every morning, laying in bed, holding her rosary. Her
  eyes are closed as she slowly recites her rosary and lets go. She lets go of
  the he...
categories:
  - "Dharma Writings"
tags:
  - buddha
  - god
  - oneness
slug: perspective-and-context
---
A friend of mine prays every morning, laying in bed, holding her rosary. Her eyes are closed as she slowly recites her rosary and lets go. She lets go of the her yesterday, releases her anger and frustrations, her guilt and her desires until she is in that contemplative prayerful state where she can listen to the Holy Spirit and to the voice of Jesus. She sees Jesus. No, he is not standing there at the foot of her bed in an aura of gold and silver, but she sees him in her mind; as she would see him from her perspective. Her American perspective. He stands tall and thin, flowing brown hair frames his gentle, sincere face. His beard is long but clean. His robes are pure and fresh. There is a soft smile on his face and compassion in his eyes. He is there for her, real and offering what she seeks. She is seeking that soul-expanding, mystical universal experience. That moment that proves there is more to the world than she can see. But, what if she been born in Nepal or Tibet or where ever, would she see Chenrezig standing there? Would she see The Buddha, sitting in lotus position under the Bodhi tree? How could that be less real just because it is with in the context of her Buddhist upbringing? I was talking to another friend a few days ago and I asked how all of these other religions were real and tangible to those people who practiced those faiths. If a child is sick in Thailand and a mother goes to the temple to offer prayers and asks for blessing, that is real to her. Religion after religion, this scenario plays it self out in all areas of the world. Does the God of the Christians show himself to other peoples in ways they can relate to? Does the Universe give what people are looking for spiritually in what ever form that culture or people will accept? I have come to see the world in a different light than my Roman Catholic upbring would like. I am Catholic still, that is true, but I don't think I can call myself 'Roman' any longer. I accept that Jesus either came on his on volition or was sent by the Creator to the Jews more than 2,000 years ago. I acknowledge that he was an amazing teacher, and I still believe He was and is divine. But I no longer feel in my heart that His religion is the only way to avoid the pit of hell. How could it be so? How could Jesus' father be kind and loving and yet require you to accept this faith or suffer hell? Take this scene and think about it: You are in the fields working with your family and friends. The day is hot but there is a soft wind making it bearable. Your crop of corn, sweet potatoes and beets are coming in and you have the Spirit to thank for that. The rains came when you asked for them and times have been good with your neighbors in the valley. Suddenly strangers sweep across your lands, raining down bullets and setting your homes afire all in the name of greed or power or religion or whatever. Family and friends gone in moments, you are sent to a camp in a far away place where you still talk to the Spirit and you know one day you will see your loved ones again. Would you convert to the religion of these invaders? Would you accept the structure and philosophy that they follow over the one you had known your whole life just because they explained that now you are doomed to hell? These are the same people who killed your family and friends. I wouldn't. What about this scene: You are in the fields working with your family and friends. The day is hot but there is a soft wind making it bearable. Your crop of corn, sweet potatoes and beets are coming in and you have the Spirit to thank for that. The rains came when you asked for them and times have been good with your neighbors in the valley. Suddenly on the ridge you see strangers. They are making their way slowly to you; quietly, in no hurry. You meet with these people who you do not share a language with, but you trade with them. You offer them food and they in return offer you silver and jewels. Some of these people stay with you in your village when they rest move on. The new people learn your language and your trades. Helping in the fields and working on the homes as you do, as a community. As you grow to respect these new people, these new family members of your community they share their faith with you around dinner and while working. Maybe you accept the faith, maybe you add it to yours. From your standpoint their god is real, just as yours is real. Maybe it is even the Creator Spirit you worship, just under a different name. But, if they turn on you, saying that you and your loved ones are damned for not converting to the faith they profess, I would banish them. Tell them to leave if they can not be compassionate and practice their faith while you practice yours. Why do some Christians refuse to accept that the bible does not contain all knowledge of the universe? Why can they not see or feel that the universe is much larger than Christianity can possibly detail for us in a book. There are many other religions that offer real, substantial spirituality and true answers. 84,000 paths.
