---
title: Moving On
pubDate: '2008-10-09'
description: >-
  Tomorrow is my last day at Century Martial Arts. I am been here since May
  2007, and it was a good time, but now I am going back to a technology company,
  where I...
categories:
  - "Practice & Inner Life"
  - "Consciousness & Philosophy"
tags:
  - ithryv
slug: moving-on
---
Tomorrow is my last day at Century Martial Arts.  I am been here since May 2007, and it was a good time, but now I am going back to a technology company, where I belong.  Century is the world's largest supplier of martial arts equipment in the world.  The web site, (http://www.CenturyMartialArts.com/) is amazing, but could be so much better.  If I could remake the entire site, I would use a very web 2.0 platform.  This is a short list of what I wish I could have done:

	

- I would allow every site visitor to tag each and every item.

	

This would build a larger view of the inter-connected items in an organic way.

	

- Every visitor would be offered a discount coupon after so many page visits or time on the site, randomly.

	

I think this would encourage more time on the site, as well as offer an incentive for visitors to come back often.

	

- Promotional emails would be sent out to users for birthdays, belt promotions and anniversaries.

	

These emails would not be all about products, but rather about the user, all the while offering them a discount for their achievement or special day.

	

- Lastly I would build a simple community into the site.  Every user gets a page where they can show us pics and video of their style, kata or even competition.  This community would not just be 'friend' based, but anyone who bought the same item as a user would be linked to them.

Just some things I wish I could have accomplished while at Century...

By the way, the new gig, (http://www.ithryv.com/), is super exciting... more infor about that soon.
