---
title: SymbioTech Operations Manual
pubDate: '2008-01-15'
description: >-
  Excerpt from Dark Ops SymbioTech Operations Manual: Introduction Welcome to
  the Dark Ops SymbioTech Operations Manual. In this opening section we will
  take a hi...
categories:
  - "Creative Writing"
tags:
  - fiction
  - symbiotech
slug: symbiotech-operations-manual
---
Excerpt from Dark Ops SymbioTech Operations Manual: Introduction Welcome to the Dark Ops SymbioTech Operations Manual. In this opening section we will take a high level look at the world's most advanced operational armor platform, the SymbioTech. For you, the Dark Ops operator, this marks the beginning of a very intense training period in which you will learn every facet of this extraordinary system and how to utilize its power to augment your already superior skills as a warrior. Let's begin by taking a brief look at the SymbioTech's history. In 2055, world terror had reached its climax. Terror organizations were staging regular, devastating attacks all throughout the world including the United States. The World economy was on the verge of bankruptcy, international relations were fractured, and several countries, along with their corresponding governments, had collapsed under the economic and psychological strain of these terrorist activities. On Monday, May 10th, 2055, President John Anderson announced his intention to re-form the league of nations formally known as NATO. The new world organization would be called the Alliance of World Peace, and its primary objective would be to root out and eliminate the world's terror leaders, and eradicate their armies. This was a world wide invitation, and by the end of that same week, all of the remaining world superpowers (the US, Russia, and the European Collective), along with several smaller nations signed the AWP charter. By the end of May 2055, the remaining nations had joined bringing the total number to its current membership of fifteen nations. In their inaugural session, the AWP established the Counter Terror Operations Council, or CTOC. This council, consisting of fifteen members, was tasked with developing an agenda on how to address the world's terror dilemma. In June, 2055, CTOC met for five days and established what we now know as the Counter Terror Bill of Action. By the end of June, this Bill of Action was ratified by all of the members of the AWP and the implementation of the Bill's tenants began immediately. Two of these tenants, in particular, had an immediate impact on the world's current crop of counter terrorism organizations. First, all of the world's counter terrorism units would be rolled up into a new, single unit know as the Dark Operations Group. This group would be under the unified command of the United States Special Projects Group. Second, a new global research initiative was created. This research initiative would occur in three Phases. Phase 1 would be a five year period in which all of the world's remaining scientific resources would be tasked with developing technology to help the Darks Ops Group fight terrorism. Phase 2 would begin by removing half of the scientists from the research initiative so they could return to their original work. Phase 2 would last three years. Phase 3 would begin the same as Phase 2, half of the remaining scientist would leave the program and those that were left would be permanently assigned to the Dark Ops Group. Out of this amazing effort came some of the most incredible technology ever developed. And arguably the crown jewel of their effort is the SymbioTech suit. While the SymbioTech suit may have been the greatest triumph of this collective brain trust, it was actually the last to be developed. The first innovations brought about better small arms weaponry and training for the Dark Ops operators. The next wave of improvements and inventions dealt with the driven and delivery vehicles used by the Dark Ops teams. At the same time these previous technological advancements were taking place, another team of scientists were working in parallel to create and deploy a singular communication network consisting of every imaginable communication media/device available, as well as a few new additions which included stable and reliable nanotechnology. While all of these advancements brought about wide and sweeping changes to how the Dark Ops operator brought war upon the terrorist, these weapons and communications systems and operators still suffered from a disconnect once the operator actually entered the field of combat. With only six months remaining in Phase 1, the scientists focused on how to bring all of these systems together in one package that could be usable by the Dark Ops operator no matter where they were. After several failed attempts, and with time running out, the SymbioTech suit was born. The SymbioTech (pronounced Sim-bi-ah-tic), also referred to as the "Sym" or "SBT", was created to be the critical link between all of the newest counter terror innovations and the Dark Ops operator. The first generation SBT, while still needing some considerable improvement, met the original goal of keeping the Dark Ops operator connected to the newly created and deployed communications network known as the Stream. While the Dark Ops operator wore the SBT, they had constant access to real time VoSS (Voice over Secure Satellite) transmissions which allowed the Dark Ops operators to stay in contact with each other and mission control. This proved to be a tremendous success because it allowed the mission controllers, who had real time data concerning a target, to literally talk the Dark Ops operators to their targets, even if those targets were on the move. By this time, Phase 1 of the research initiative had completed. As Phase 2 began, the remaining researchers continued to focus on improving the SBT. During this three year phase, there were three ground breaking discoveries that would transform the SBT from a mere communications conduit to the most advanced armor platform ever known. The first two innovations occurred early on in Phase 2. First, was the development of the neural net. Simply put, this is a nanotech array that is attached to the cerebral cortex of the Dark Ops operator. Second, was the invention of Nanopreen. Unlike previous SBT's that were made of conventional materials incorporating a limited amount of nanotechnology, Nanopreen was an incredible leap forward in that the material was almost exclusively made up of nano machines. This allowed the SBT to be self-repairable, form adaptable, as well as several other attributes which you will learn in detail in later sections. But one additional property that makes Nanopreen special is its ability to incorporate new technology which gives the researchers the perfect canvas to create new and exciting systems for the SBT. Through the neural net, or net for short, the SBT literally comes to life and becomes a very active part of the Dark Ops operator. Even if we were to stop here, the SBT would still be (and was) considered the peak of technological advancement, however one more discovery was made late in Phase 2 that would give Dark Ops operators a sense of near invulnerability: P.R.O.T.E.C.T. (Projectile Rejection On TErminal ContacT). In short, this technology senses an incoming projectile threat (such as a small arms round, shrapnel, or a knife), calculates its incoming trajectory and hardens the suit at the point of contact. Not only does it stop the projectile from penetrating the suit, it also dissipates the kinetic energy that also might have caused injury to the Dark Ops operator. NOTE: As incredible a technology as P.R.O.T.E.C.T. is, it still has it's limitations, which you will learn about in a later section. This brings us to our current generation of the SBT. Even though we've moved into Phase 3 of the research initiative, work continues to further improve the SBT. Some modifications that will be seen in the future include adaptive camouflage (with the ultimate goal of transparency), further advancements to the P.R.O.T.E.C.T. technology, better extreme temperature compensation, and many more. Dates of interest:

*   Monday, May 10th, 2055 - President John Anderson announced his intention to re-form the league of nations formally known as NATO
*   May 2055 remaining nations join
*   June 2055, CTOC met for five days and established what we now know as the Counter Terror Bill of Action
